---
layout: post
title: "Introducing Reqfleet"
description: ""
category: startup
tags: [load testing, startup, performance]
---

{% include JB/setup %}

I left my previous employer about a year ago and started my own business: [Reqfleet](https://reqfleet.com).

It's a product I've been working on for a while. It helps enterprises and individual developers conduct load tests. Please give it a try! You can use the invitation code `BLOG` when registering.

If you are interested in buying an enterprise plan, please feel free to send me an email. kejun#reqfleet.com. Please note if you read it from my blog. :P

In this blog post, I want to share my thoughts behind such a big change.

## Why I started my own business

### The field does not matter (much)

It took me a while to finally make the decision. One thing that made me hesitant to start working on Reqfleet was that the expertise required to build it was vastly different from what I had been working on. I didn't want to waste the experience I've gained over the years. But gradually, my mind changed and I started to realise the field doesn't matter that much. I just want to build products, ship products, and do it in a way that I'm passionate about.

### Can I do it for 10 years or longer?

The next question I asked myself was: if I chose to work on a product, could I commit myself for 10 years or longer? 

The answer became clear once I knew what I wanted to do:

* The product I'll be working on should be technically challenging and have potential to evolve.
* I want to build a company that I myself would want to work in. It should be product-centric and customer-centric. It should be able to generate a healthy profit by serving customers well.
* If possible, I want to build a team that I'll enjoy working with.

That's much more attractive than barely surviving in a complex corporate world. If the company I describe can survive for 10 years, that will be one of the best achievements of my life.

## Why load testing?

I've always been interested in performance-related topics. Much of my major work in the past was focused on making web applications faster—from constructing a cache layer to developing a novel API gateway. Around 8 years ago, I started to develop an open-source solution to help internal teams conduct load tests more easily. Since then, I've helped countless teams run load tests and detect performance issues. However, I didn't spend my full time working on it over the last 8 years. So, while I had many ideas along the way, I wasn't able to make them happen. Starting Reqfleet allows me to turn those ideas into reality. 

Let me use a phrase from Toy Story to end this blog:

> To infinity and beyond!
